
jump to content
GET NEW REDDIT
MY SUBREDDITS
				HOME-POPULAR-ALL-RANDOM-MOD-USERS | WORLDNEWS-FLYING-CONSULTING-FATFIRE-DEVOPS-POLITICALDISCUSSION-AWS-KUBERNETES-DOCKER-AZURE-ITMANAGERS-ETL-BUSINESSSCHOOL
EDIT »
		reddit.com cscareerquestionscomments
		mrcrassic (3,889)|messages|chat messages7|mod messages|mod messages|preferences|logout

this post was submitted on 31 May 2017
4 points (83% upvoted)
shortlink: https://redd.it/6ei4qg

Ask a new question


Get an ad-free experience with special benefits, and directly support Reddit.
Get Reddit Premium
cscareerquestions
join300,298 readers
6,474 users here now
Show my flair on this subreddit. It looks like:
mrcrassic(edit)
Welcome, one and all, to CSCareerQuestions! 
Here we discuss careers in Computer Science, Computer Engineering, Software Engineering, and related fields. Please keep the conversation professional, adhere to the reddiquette, and remember to READ OUR RULES.

Discord
CSCQ regular u/Kevincav runs a discord called CS Career Hackers. Please check it out for your chatting needs: https://discord.gg/ndFR4RF
Please note that we, the CSCQ mod team are not in charge of this discord.

Want to ask a question?
	•	First: Read the rules 
	•	Second: Check out this awesome "quick answers to common questions" thread 
	•	Third: Check the FAQ 
	•	Fourth: Search for prior posts on the subject 
	•	Fifth: Post post post 

User Flair??
Noticed some cool user flair around? Take a look at this thread to see what it's all about. 
tl;dr: darker colors == more posting experience here.

Salary Sharing Survey
The survey and response spreadsheet have been updated as of November 23, 2018.
Survey | Responses
These are the old responses to the previous survey
Share your current compensation and review the data submitted by other users in the two links above. More info about the salary survey can be found on the subreddit wiki.

Salary Sharing Threads
These are only posted by mods, following the schedule listed in the FAQ. You can find past threads here.

Demographics Survey
	•	2017/2018 Results
	•	2016 Results

Daily Threads
In addition to a chat thread that's newly spawned every day, we have a daily rotation for threads for certain topics. Please don't start new threads about these topics without getting mod permission first, lest we be forced to...intervene.
	•	Sunday: Big N 
	•	Monday: Interviews 
	•	Tuesday: Resumes 
	•	Wednesday: Big N 
	•	Thursday: Interviews 
	•	Friday: Special Rant Thread 
	•	Saturday: Resumes 

Related Subs
Other CS Career Subs
CS Career Questions: Europe
Experienced Devs
CS Interview Questions
Education/Theory
CS Majors
CompSci
Computer Science
CS Education
Programming
Learn Programming
General Programming Discussion
Coding
Other Jobs Subs
IT Career Questions
Telecommuting
General Job Discussion
Digital Nomads
Career Guidance

Contribute to the FAQ!
We could always do with more help and wisdom, friend! The better the FAQ, the harder we can come down on lazy posters with low-effort OPs, which means a higher quality subreddit experience for you.

Don't see your link?
created by [deleted]
a community for 8 years

message the moderators
MODERATORS
		CriticDangerSoftware Engineer
		Himekat12 Years XP | TPM | DevOps
		LLJKCiceroAndroid Dev @ G | 7Y XP
		AutoModeratorRobot
		ocawaSoftware Engineer
		cscqflairbotRobot
		HackVTHiring Manager
		xiongchiamiovSite Reliability Engineer
		XXAligatorXxFreshman
		RyanTargaryen
		...and 1 more »
RECENTLY VIEWED LINKS
		   articleWhy I turned down an AWS job offer
		159 points | 83 comments      Notes on Site Reliability Engineering
		28 points | 9 comments      Airpods Pro Unboxing, Size Comparison, and Initial Impressions
		515 points | 313 comments      AirPods Pro Earpiece Tip Replacements Will Cost $4
		643 points | 254 comments      Huawei FreeBuds 3 review: No more AirPods envy - Android Authority
		0 points | 53 comments     clear  
account activity
This is an archived post. You won't be able to vote or comment.




What is an SRE? (self.cscareerquestions)
4 points submitted 2 years ago by TaylorHu
Site Reliability Engineer. This is a job title I see crop up occasionally, but I haven't really found a clear definition as to what it is. It kind of seems like it's the same as DevOps, in that it's kind of a generic job title for a jack of all trades style position that varies a lot from company to company. Anyone care to shed some light?
		6 commentssharesavehidegive awardreportcrosspost



all 6 comments
sorted by: top



[–]kingisaac10 Yrs / Software Architect 3 points 2 years ago 
The way it works in my experience (full disclosure, I'm not an SRE, but I work with some) is that SRE's are a lot like DevOps except on the other side of the deployment. Site reliability engineers may goal is to keep everything running smoothly once it's out the door. They need to be familiar with monitoring solutions and at higher levels will be involved with developing crisis recovery protocols. 
		permalinkembedsavegive award



[–]TaylorHu[S] 1 point 2 years ago 
Do they do any actual coding? All of the job descriptions I've seen list "familiarity with XXXXX programming language" as a requirement. I am assuming that's more so they can at least debug the problem somewhat accurately before kicking it back to the developer.
		permalinkembedsaveparentgive award



[–]zelmarvalarion 2 points 2 years ago 
Depending on whether the SRE position is an actual SRE position, or whether the company decided to rebrand their Ops positions as "SRE" to attract.
At the very least, you should be familiar enough with the language you are supporting to do basic debugging to both understand potential consequences of the issues create informed bugs for the developers. If you are a SWE-SRE, you will also likely be developing software, though primarily internal and not external software. It's possible that they may be different languages though (e.g. Services that you are supporting might be in Java or C++, but you might be developing in Python or Go [Using Google as an example]). Projects that would likely be SRE developed would be things like: * Monitoring Platforms/Dashboards * Statistical health modeling/alerting * Production service analysis * Automated configuration/release pushes * Issue mitigation assistance/automation
		permalinkembedsaveparentgive award






[–][deleted] 1 point 2 years ago 
The answer to this is always "it depends". Right now I work as an SRE where I code 99% of the time - I write internal tools and make open-source contributions to tools that we use in my team.
I've had previous SRE jobs which promised me coding where I was doing 99% Linux sysadmin (kinda bait-and-switch job but it happens in the murky world of "what the fuck is devops").
		permalinkembedsaveparent






[–]jjirsaEngineering Manager @  1 point 2 years ago 
Usually SRE is a title at organizations large enough that you can't operate without being able to program. For example, in some companies you'll have a hundred thousand servers running the same piece of software. If you detect a potential problem, and you need to fix it, you can't do that one server at a time - you HAVE to be able to program in SOMETHING, or you'll be ineffective. 
		permalinkembedsaveparentgive award










[–]slpgh 3 points 2 years ago 
Here's the "official"(?) definition from Google's SRE team: https://landing.google.com/sre/book/chapters/introduction.html
Scroll down to: "Google’s Approach to Service Management: Site Reliability Engineering"
		permalinkembedsavegive award



		about
		blog
		about
		advertising
		careers
		help
		site rules
		Reddit help center
		wiki
		reddiquette
		mod guidelines
		contact us
		apps & tools
		Reddit for iPhone
		Reddit for Android
		mobile website
		<3
		reddit premium
		reddit coins
		redditgifts
Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy. © 2019 reddit inc. All rights reserved.
REDDIT and the ALIEN Logo are registered trademarks of reddit inc.
Advertise - technology
π 







